i.MX8QM/ZynqMP boot software updates (#314)
foundriesio/docs: source/reference-manual/security/boot-software-updates-imx.rst

    setenv devnum 2
    setenv bootpart 1
    setenv rootpart 2

    # Boot image files
    setenv fdt_file_final freescale_${fdt_file}
    setenv fit_addr ${initrd_addr}

    # Boot firmware updates
    setenv bootloader 42
    setenv bootloader2 300
    setenv bootloader_s 1042
    setenv bootloader2_s 1300
    setenv bootloader_image "imx-boot"
    setenv bootloader_s_image ${bootloader_image}
    setenv bootloader2_image "u-boot.itb"
    setenv bootloader2_s_image ${bootloader2_image}
    setenv uboot_hwpart 1

    @@INCLUDE_COMMON@@

From the list above you can find that the only needed variables that
should be defined are: boot/root partition indexes, mmc device index and
**fdt\_file**. For boot firmware updates functionality also bootloader
image offsets and names should be provided.

sysroot and signed boot artifacts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All boot artifacts (SPL/imx-boot and U-Boot FIT) are automatically deployed
to sysroot during build time, however on closed boards, where initial boot
image has to be signed in advance by a subscriber private key, there is way to
add signed binary instead of automatic inclusion of unsigned boot artifacts.

> To do that just **lmp-boot-firmware.bbappend** to your *meta-subscriber*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do that just **lmp-boot-firmware.bbappend** to your *meta-subscriber-overrides*
```

.. highlight:: sh

.. _ref-boot-software-updates-imx:

Boot Software Updates on iMX
============================

Boot artifacts
--------------

SPL
~~~

> SPL is the first software loader generated by the i.MX U-Boot build. It

Author: quickly checked, looks like i.MX with dot is correct one (`https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I.MX`)

is signed via the NXP CST tool which fills in various IVT header fields.
SPL binaries from CI CANNOT be added directly to OTA due to the missing
signature data which must be added by the subscriber.

> In some cases, SoC may have embedded firmware (such as DDR firmware for

Reviewer 2: This paragraph confuses me a little. It would be better to add information on what and from where loads this embedded SoC firmware.

Author: this is a document I wasn't working on, it was just moved to a different file.

> DDR firmware for mx8m). This firmware is loaded prior to the load /

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
DDR firmware for i.MX 8M). This firmware is loaded prior to the load /
```

Fastboot: support of secondary boot image offsets
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The required offsets for the secondary boot images (**SPL**, **U-Boot.itb**
and **SIT**) for iMX6, iMX6ULL, iMX7 and iMX8M SoCs, are defined at FSL
fastboot driver. If you need to change SIT offset used for
your SoC, adjust **secondary\_image\_table\_mmc\_offset()** and
**bootloader\_mmc\_offset()** functions U-Boot fastboot driver sources
(*drivers/fastboot/fb\_fsl/fb\_fsl\_partitions.c*).

Secondary Image Table generation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

SIT image binary is generated automatically if U-Boot is being
built with correct value of **CONFIG\_SECONDARY\_BOOT\_SECTOR\_OFFSET**
config option.

Watchdog
^^^^^^^^

As secondary boot path is mainly used for boot firmware update images
validation, sometimes in exceptional causes it behave incorrectly,
causing hangs etc. To cover such cases watchdog support has to be
enabled in SPL by adding these config options to **lmp.cfg** of your
board:

::

    CONFIG_IMX_WATCHDOG=y
    CONFIG_SPL_HW_WATCHDOG=y
    # CONFIG_SPL_WDT is not set
    CONFIG_SPL_WATCHDOG_SUPPORT=y

meta-lmp
~~~~~~~~

mfgtool scripts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> To deploy boot images to the destination board mfgtools package is used.
> It uses special configuration file with uuu extensions, that contains
> all needed instructions for correct deployment of boot images. Current
> uuu files don't support flashing images for secondary boot path, so
> appropriate adjustments should be made, adding SIT image, secondary SPL
> and U-Boot FIT deployment steps:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To deploy boot images to the destination board, the mfgtools package is used.
It uses a special configuration file with uuu extensions, which contains
all needed instructions for the deployment of boot images. Default
uuu files do not support flashing images for secondary boot path. Doing so requiring
the following adjustments: adding SIT image, secondary SPL
and U-Boot FIT deployment steps:
```

::

    +FB: flash bootloader_s ../imx-boot-@@MACHINE@@
    +FB: flash bootloader2_s ../u-boot-@@MACHINE@@.itb
    +FB: flash sit ../sit-@@MACHINE@@.bin

> So the final uuu script looks like:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The final uuu script looks like:
```

::

    uuu_version 1.2.39
    SDP: boot -f imx-boot-mfgtool
    SDPS: boot -f imx-boot-mfgtool

    SDPV: delay 1000
    SDPV: write -f u-boot-mfgtool.itb
    SDPV: jump

    FB: ucmd setenv fastboot_dev mmc
    FB: ucmd setenv mmcdev ${emmc_dev}
    FB: ucmd mmc dev ${mmcdev} 1; mmc erase 0 0x2000
    FB: flash bootloader ../imx-boot-@@MACHINE@@
    FB: flash bootloader2 ../u-boot-@@MACHINE@@.itb
    FB: flash bootloader_s ../imx-boot-@@MACHINE@@
    FB: flash bootloader2_s ../u-boot-@@MACHINE@@.itb
    FB: flash sit ../sit-@@MACHINE@@.bin
    FB: ucmd if env exists emmc_ack; then ; else setenv emmc_ack 0; fi;
    FB: ucmd mmc partconf ${mmcdev} ${emmc_ack} 1 0
    FB: done

lmp.cfg files
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> So to enable support for flashing/booting secondary boot images, just
> adjust regular **lmp.cfg** and the one for mfgtools for your board enabling
> support of secondary boot path. These config options should be added to
> regular **lmp.cfg**:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To enable support for flashing/booting secondary boot images,
adjust the default **lmp.cfg** and  the one for mfgtools  for the device, enabling
support for the secondary boot path.

The following config options need to be added to the default **lmp.cfg**:
```
